This is the liminal interface applied to single cell RNA-seq data.
Here we are interested in learning cell types and their relations by first clustering the gene expression counts.
On the left hand side we have an embedding of this data using t-SNE. On the right a grand tour.
We learn that the embedding has mostly captured the clusters relative location to each other to their location.
With a notable exception of points in cluster 3 and 10 as shown with linked brushing, we can see that the edges of these clusters are far apart.
t-SNE mitigates the crowding problem that is an issue for tour.
Points in clusters 2, 4, 6, and 11 are clumped together in tour view, but are blown up in the embedding view.
Brushing on the tour view, reveals points in cluster 9 that are diffuse in the embedding
view.
Points in cluster 9 are relatively far away and spread apart from other
clusters in the tour view
But has points placed in cluster 3 and 9 in the embedding.
Letting the tour animation play out, we see the structure of the data appear.
The cells form a tetrahedron, with points lying along the surface and the vertices.